<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>My Friend</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="my-friend" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">My Friend</h2>
			<p>My friend, I am not what I seem. Seeming is but a garment I wear⁠—a care-woven garment that protects me from thy questionings and thee from my negligence.</p>
			<p>The “I” in me, my friend, dwells in the house of silence, and therein it shall remain for ever more, unperceived, unapproachable.</p>
			<p>I would not have thee believe in what I say nor trust in what I do⁠—for my words are naught but thy own thoughts in sound and my deeds thy own hopes in action.</p>
			<p>When thou sayest, “The wind bloweth eastward,” I say, “Aye it doth blow eastward“; for I would not have thee know that my mind doth not dwell upon the wind but upon the sea.</p>
			<p>Thou canst not understand my seafaring thoughts, nor would I have thee understand. I would be at sea alone.</p>
			<p>When it is day with thee, my friend, it is night with me; yet even then I speak of the noontide that dances upon the hills and of the purple shadow that steals its way across the valley; for thou canst not hear the songs of my darkness nor see my wings beating against the stars⁠—and I fain would not have thee hear or see. I would be with night alone.</p>
			<p>When thou ascendest to thy Heaven I descend to my Hell⁠—even then thou callest to me across the unbridgeable gulf, “My companion, my comrade,” and I call back to thee, “My comrade, my companion“⁠—for I would not have thee see my Hell. The flame would burn thy eyesight and the smoke would crowd thy nostrils. And I love my Hell too well to have thee visit it. I would be in Hell alone.</p>
			<p>Thou lovest Truth and Beauty and Righteousness; and I for thy sake say it is well and seemly to love these things. But in my heart I laught at thy love. Yet I would not have thee see my laughter. I would laugh alone.</p>
			<p>My friend, thou art good and cautious and wise; nay, thou art perfect⁠—and I, too, speak with thee wisely and cautiously. And yet I am mad. But I mask my madness. I would be mad alone.</p>
			<p>My friend, thou art not my friend, but how shall I make thee understand? My path is not thy path, yet together we walk, hand in hand.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
