<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Greater Sea</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-greater-sea" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Greater Sea</h2>
			<p>My soul and I went to the great sea to bathe. And when we reached the shore, we went about looking for a hidden and lonely place.</p>
			<p>But as we walked, we saw a man sitting on a grey rock taking pinches of salt from a bag and throwing them into the sea.</p>
			<p>“This is the pessimist,” said my soul, “Let us leave this place. We cannot bathe here.”</p>
			<p>We walked on until we reached an inlet. There we saw, standing on a white rock, a man holding a bejeweled box, from which he took sugar and threw it into the sea.</p>
			<p>“And this is the optimist,” said my soul, “And he too must not see our naked bodies.”</p>
			<p>Further on we walked. And on a beach we saw a man picking up dead fish and tenderly putting them back into the water.</p>
			<p>“And we cannot bathe before him,” said my soul. “He is the humane philanthropist.”</p>
			<p>And we passed on.</p>
			<p>Then we came where we saw a man tracing his shadow on the sand. Great waves came and erased it. But he went on tracing it again and again.</p>
			<p>“He is the mystic,” said my soul, “Let us leave him.”</p>
			<p>And we walked on, till in a quiet cover we saw a man scooping up the foam and putting it into an alabaster bowl.</p>
			<p>“He is the idealist,” said my soul, “Surely he must not see our nudity.”</p>
			<p>And on we walked. Suddenly we heard a voice crying, “This is the sea. This is the deep sea. This is the vast and mighty sea.” And when we reached the voice it was a man whose back was turned to the sea, and at his ear he held a shell, listening to its murmur.</p>
			<p>And my soul said, “Let us pass on. He is the realist, who turns his back on the whole he cannot grasp, and busies himself with a fragment.”</p>
			<p>So we passed on. And in a weedy place among the rocks was a man with his head buried in the sand. And I said to my soul, “We can bath here, for he cannot see us.”</p>
			<p>“Nay,” said my soul, “For he is the most deadly of them all. He is the puritan.”</p>
			<p>Then a great sadness came over the face of my soul, and into her voice.</p>
			<p>“Let us go hence,” she said, “For there is no lonely, hidden place where we can bathe. I would not have this wind lift my golden hair, or bare my white bosom in this air, or let the light disclose my sacred nakedness.”</p>
			<p>Then we left that sea to seek the Greater Sea.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
