<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Perfect World</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-perfect-world" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Perfect World</h2>
			<p>God of lost souls, thou who are lost amongst the gods, hear me:</p>
			<p>Gentle Destiny that watchest over us, mad, wandering spirits, hear me:</p>
			<p>I dwell in the midst of a perfect race, I the most imperfect.</p>
			<p>I, a human chaos, a nebula of confused elements, I move amongst finished worlds⁠—peoples of complete laws and pure order, whose thoughts are assorted, whose dreams are arranged, and whose visions are enrolled and registered.</p>
			<p>Their virtues, O God, are measured, their sins are weighed, and even the countless things that pass in the dim twilight of neither sin nor virtue are recorded and catalogued.</p>
			<p>Here days and night are divided into seasons of conduct and governed by rules of blameless accuracy.</p>
			<p>To eat, to drink, to sleep, to cover one’s nudity, and then to be weary in due time.</p>
			<p>To work, to play, to sing, to dance, and then to lie still when the clock strikes the hour.</p>
			<p>To think thus, to feel thus much, and then to cease thinking and feeling when a certain star rises above yonder horizon.</p>
			<p>To rob a neighbour with a smile, to bestow gifts with a graceful wave of the hand, to praise prudently, to blame cautiously, to destroy a sound with a word, to burn a body with a breath, and then to wash the hands when the day’s work is done.</p>
			<p>To love according to an established order, to entertain one’s best self in a preconceived manner, to worship the gods becomingly, to intrigue the devils artfully⁠—and then to forget all as though memory were dead.</p>
			<p>To fancy with a motive, to contemplate with consideration, to be happy sweetly, to suffer nobly⁠—and then to empty the cup so that tomorrow may fill it again.</p>
			<p>All these things, O God, are conceived with forethought, born with determination, nursed with exactness, governed by rules, directed by reason, and then slain and buried after a prescribed method. And even their silent graves that lie within the human soul are marked and numbered.</p>
			<p>It is a perfect world, a world of consummate excellence, a world of supreme wonders, the ripest fruit in God’s garden, the master-thought of the universe.</p>
			<p>But why should I be here, O God, I a green seed of unfulfilled passion, a mad tempest that seeketh neither east nor west, a bewildered fragment from a burnt planet?</p>
			<p>Why am I here, O God of lost souls, thou who art lost amongst the gods?</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
