<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Crucified</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="crucified" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Crucified</h2>
			<p>I cried to men, “I would be crucified!”</p>
			<p>And they said, “Why should your blood be upon our heads?”</p>
			<p>And I answered, “How else shall you be exalted except by crucifying madmen?”</p>
			<p>And they heeded and I was crucified. And the crucifixion appeased me.</p>
			<p>And when I was hanged between earth and heaven they lifted up their heads to see me. And they were exalted, for their heads had never before been lifted.</p>
			<p>But as they stood looking up at me one called out, “For what art thou seeking to atone?”</p>
			<p>And another cried, “In what cause dost thou sacrifice thyself?”</p>
			<p>And a third said, “Thinkest thou with this price to buy world glory?”</p>
			<p>Then said a fourth, “Behold, how he smiles! Can such pain be forgiven?”</p>
			<p>And I answered them all, and said:</p>
			<p>“Remember only that I smiled. I do not atone⁠—nor sacrifice⁠—nor wish for glory; and I have nothing to forgive. I thirsted⁠—and I besought you to give me my blood to drink. For what is there can quench a madman’s thirst but his own blood? I was dumb⁠—and I asked wounds of you for mouths. I was imprisoned in your days and nights⁠—and I sought a door into larger days and nights.</p>
			<p>And now I go⁠—as others already crucified have gone. And think not we are weary of crucifixion. For we must be crucified by larger and yet larger men, between greater earths and greater heavens.”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
